# 1.0 - The way of the program

The goal of this book is to teach you to think like a computer scientist. This way of thinking combines some of the best features of mathematics, engineering, and natural science. Like mathematicians, computer scientists use formal languages to denote ideas (specifically computations). Like engineers, they design things, assembling components into systems and evaluating tradeoffs among alternatives. Like scientists, they observe the behavior of complex systems, form hypotheses, and test predictions.

The single most important skill for a computer scientist is problem solving. Problem solving means the ability to formulate problems, think creatively about solutions, and express a solution clearly and accurately. As it turns out, the process of learning to program is an excellent opportunity to practice problem-solving skills. That’s why this chapter is called, “The way of the program.”

On one level, you will be learning to program, a useful skill by itself. On another level, you will use programming as a means to an end. As we go along, that end will become clearer.


## 1.1 - The F# Programming Language

The programming language you will learn is F#. F# is an example of a high-level language; other high-level languages you might have heard of are C, C++, Ruby, Java and Python. There are also low-level languages, sometimes referred to as “machine languages” or “assembly languages.” Loosely speaking, computers can only execute programs written in low-level languages. So programs written in a high-level language have to be processed before they can run. This extra processing takes some time, which is a small disadvantage of high-level languages. The advantages are enormous. First, it is much easier to program in a high-level language. Programs written in a high-level language take less time to write, they are shorter and easier to read, and they are more likely to be correct. Second, high-level languages are portable, meaning that they can run on different kinds of computers with few or no modifications. Low-level programs can run on only one kind of computer and have to be rewritten to run on another.


Due to these advantages, almost all programs are written in high-level languages. Low-level languages are used only for a few specialized applications. Two kinds of programs process high-level languages into low-level languages: interpreters and compilers. An interpreter reads a high-level program and executes it, meaning that it does what the program says. It processes the program a little at a time, alternately reading lines and performing computations.

    [ Source Code ] => [ Interpreter ] => [ Output ]

A compiler reads the program and translates it completely before the program starts running. In this
    context, the high-level program is called the source code, and the translated program is called the
    object code or the executable. Once a program is compiled, you can execute it repeatedly without
    further translation

    [ Source Code ] => [ Compiler ] => [ Object Code ] => [ Executor ] => [ Output ]

One of the nice features of F# is that F# is both a compiled and an interpreted programming language. On the one hand, F# can be compiled into an executable file. This makes it easier to pass along your program to non-OCaml users, which for a new, up-and-coming programming language like F#, is a nice feature. On the other hand, F# can be treated like an interpreted programming language, meaning that an F# script or F# commands can be executed by it's interpreter F# Interactive (FSI). This is useful for finding errors in your code and testing commands and snippits of code. There are two ways to use the interpreter: interactive mode and script mode. In interactive mode, you type F# commands into FSI and the interpreter prints the result:

    > 1 + 1;;
    val it : int = 2

The Right Angle Bracket/Greater Than/Right Chevron `>` is the prompt the interpreter uses to indicate that it is ready for input. The double semicolons `;;` indicates the end of a command statement. If you type `1 + 1;;`, the interpreter replies `val it : int = 2`.

Alternatively, you can store code in a file and use the interpreter to execute the contents of the file, which is called a script. By convention, F# scripts have names that end with `.fsx`. Working in interactive mode is convenient for testing small pieces of code because you can type and execute them immediately. But for anything more than a few lines, you should save your code as a
    script so you can modify and execute it in the future.
