### 1.4.4 Experimental Debugging
One of the most important skills you will acquire is debugging. Although it can be frustrating, debugging is one 
of the most intellectually rich, challenging, and interesting parts of programming.

In some ways, debugging is like detective work. You are confronted with clues, and you have to infer the processes 
and events that led to the results you see.

Debugging is also like an experimental science.  Once you have an idea about what is going wrong, you modify your 
program and try again.  If your hypothesis was correct, then you can predict the result of the modification, and 
you take a step closer to a working program.  If your hypothesis was wrong, you have to come up with a new one.  
As Sherlock Holmes pointed out, "When you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, 
must be the truth." (A. Conan Doyle, _The Sign of Four_)

For some people, programming and debugging are the same thing. That is, programming is the process of gradually 
debugging a program until it does what you want.  The idea is that you should start with a program that does _something_ and make small modifications, debugging them as you go, so that you always have a working program.

For example, Linux is an operating system that contains thousands of lines of code, but it started out as a simple 
program Linus Torvalds used to explore the Intel 80386 chip. According to Larry Greenfield, "One of Linus's 
earlier projects was a program that would switch between printing AAAA and BBBB. This later evolved to Linux." 
(_The Linux Users' Guide_ Beta Version 1).

Later chapters will make more suggestions about debugging and other programming practices.