## 1.5 Formal and natural languages
**Natural languages** are the languages people speak, such as English, Spanish, and French.  They were not 
designed by people (although people try to impose some order on them); they evolved naturally.

**Formal languages** are languages that are designed by people for specific applications. For example, the 
notation that mathematicians use is a formal language that is particularly good at denoting relationships 
among numbers and symbols. Chemists use a formal language to represent the chemical structure of molecules. And most importantly:


> **Programming languages are formal languages that have been designed to express computations.**

Formal languages tend to have strict rules about syntax. For example, _$3 + 3 = 6$_ is a syntactically correct 
mathematical statement, but _$3+ = 3$6_ is not. _H<sub>2</sub>O_ is a syntactically correct chemical formula, 
but _<sub>2</sub>Zz_ is not.

Syntax rules come in two flavors, pertaining to **tokens** and structure. Tokens are the basic elements of 
the language, such as words, numbers, and chemical elements.  One of the problems with _$3 + = 3$6_ 
is that _$_ is not a legal token in mathematics (at least as far as I know).  Similarly, _<sub>2</sub>Zz_ is not legal 
because there is no element with the abbreviation _Zz_.

The second type of syntax error pertains to the structure of a statement; that is, the way the tokens are 
arranged. The statement _$3+ = 3$6_ is illegal because even though _+_ and _=_ are legal tokens, 
you can't have one right after the other. Similarly, in a chemical formula the subscript comes after the 
element name, not before.

**Exercise 1.1**
Write a well-structured English sentence with invalid tokens in it. Then write another sentence with all 
valid tokens but with invalid structure.

When you read a sentence in English or a statement in a formal language, you have to figure out what the 
structure of the sentence is (although in a natural language you do this subconsciously).  This process 
is called **parsing**.

For example, when you hear the sentence, "The penny dropped," you understand that "the penny" is the 
subject and "dropped" is the predicate. Once you have parsed a sentence, you can figure out what it 
means, or the semantics of the sentence. Assuming that you know what a penny is and what it means to 
drop, you will understand the general implication of this sentence.

Although formal and natural languages have many features in common (tokens, structure, syntax, and 
semantics), there are some differences:

**ambiguity:** Natural languages are full of ambiguity, which people deal with by using contextual 
clues and other information. Formal languages are designed to be nearly or completely unambiguous, which 
means that any statement has exactly one meaning, regardless of context.

**redundancy:** In order to make up for ambiguity and reduce misunderstandings, natural languages employ 
lots of redundancy. As a result, they are often verbose. Formal languages are less redundant and more 
concise.

**literalness:** Natural languages are full of idiom and metaphor. If I say, "The penny dropped," 
there is probably no penny and nothing dropping (This idiom means that someone realized something 
after a period of confusion). Formal languages mean exactly what they say.

People who grow up speaking a natural language (everyone I know) often have a hard time adjusting to 
formal languages. In some ways, the difference between formal and natural language is like the 
difference between poetry and prose, but more so:

**Poetry:** Words are used for their sounds as well as for their meaning, and the whole poem 
together creates an effect or emotional response. Ambiguity is not only common but often deliberate.

**Prose:** The literal meaning of words is more important, and the structure contributes more 
meaning. Prose is more amenable to analysis than poetry but still often ambiguous.

**Programs:** The meaning of a computer program is unambiguous and literal, and can be understood 
entirely by analysis of the tokens and structure.

Here are some suggestions for reading programs (and other formal languages). First, remember that 
formal languages are much more dense than natural languages, so it takes longer to read them. Also, 
the structure is very important, so it is usually not a good idea to read from top to bottom, left 
to right. Instead, learn to parse the program in your head, identifying the tokens and interpreting 
the structure. Finally, the details matter. Small errors in spelling and punctuation, which you can 
get away with in natural languages, can make a big difference in a formal language.