## 1.6 The first program
Traditionally, the first program you write in a new language is called "Hello, World!" 
because all it does is display the words, "Hello, World!" In F#, one version looks 
like this:
``` fsharp
printf "Hello, World!\n";;
```
This is an example of a **print statement**, which doesn't actually print anything on paper. 
It displays a value on the screen.  In this case, the result is:
``` fsharp
Hello, World!
val it : unit = ()
```
The quotation marks in the program mark the beginning and end of the text to be displayed; they 
don't appear in the result. The `\n` is an **escape character** (An escape character 
is a special character within a string denoted by a "whack" ("\\") followed by a character or 
series of characters that results in a special character, such as a new line), specifically the 
newline character, which tells the output to move to a new line.

There's another way to print called `Console.Write`, which gives you different options than `printf`.
`Console.Write` comes from a **library**, called "System". 
Libraries are extensions of F# that often contain useful functions. "System" is a part of a large collection of libraries called the .NET Framework, one version or another of which comes prepackaged with most F# installations.

To use the System library, you need to import it by using the `open` directive:
``` fsharp
open System;;
```
And then call WriteLn simply as `Console.Write`.
``` fsharp
> Console.Write "Hello, World!\n";;
Hello, World!
val it : unit = ()
```
Another option under "Console" is "WriteLine". It's just like "Write", but it automatically adds the newline for you:
``` fsharp
> Console.WriteLine "Hello, World!";;
Hello, World!
val it : unit = ()
```
Notice there is no `\n`. Handy!

Really, we could simply just type `"Hello, World!"` and get the result `val it : string = "Hello, World!"`.

Some people judge the quality of a programming language by the simplicity of the "Hello, World!" program. By this standard, F# does (or can do, anyway; there are about as many different F# "Hello, World!" programs as there are F# programmers, all arguably equally valid.) about as well as possible.