## 1.9 Glossary

**problem solving:** The process of formulating a problem, finding a solution, and expressing the solution.

**high-level language:** A programming language like F# that is designed to be easy for humans to read and write.

**low-level language:** A programming language that is designed to be easy for a computer to execute; also called "machine language" or "assembly language".

**portability:** A property of a program that can run on more than one kind of computer.

**interpret:** To execute a program in a high-level language by translating it one line at a time.

**compile:** To translate a program written in a high-level language into a low-level language all at once, in preparation for later execution.

**source code:** A program in a high-level language before being compiled. Usually stored as a "text" file.

**object code:** The output of the compiler after it translates the program. Usually stored as a "binary" file.

**executable:** Another name for object code that is ready to be executed.

**prompt:** Characters displayed by the interpreter to indicate that it is ready to take input from the user.

**script:** A program stored in a file (usually one that will be interpreted). A type of "source code" file.

**interactive mode:** A way of using the F# interpreter by typing commands and expressions at the prompt.

**script mode:** A way of using the F# interpreter to read and execute statements in a script.

**FSI:** The F# interactive interpreter; the program you use to type in F# code and see immediate results.

**program:** A set of instructions that specifies a computation.

**algorithm:** A general process for solving a category of problems.

**bug:** An error in a program.

**debugging:** The process of finding and removing any of the three kinds of programming errors.

**syntax:** The structure of a program.

**syntax error:** An error in a program that makes it impossible to parse (and therefore impossible to interpret or compile).

**exception:** An error that is detected while the program is running.

**semantics:** The meaning of a program.

**semantic error:** An error in a program that makes it do something other than what the programmer intended.

**natural language:** Any one of the languages that people speak that evolved naturally.

**formal language:** Any one of the languages that people have designed for specific purposes, such as representing mathematical ideas or computer programs; all programming languages are formal languages.

**token:** One of the basic elements of the syntactic structure of a program, analogous to a word in a natural language.

**parse:** To examine a program and analyze the syntactic structure.

**print statement:** An instruction that causes the  interpreter to display a value on the screen.