## 2.12 Glossary

**value:** One of the basic units of data, like a number or string, 
that a program manipulates.

**type:** A category of values. The types we have seen so far
are integers (type `int`), floating-point numbers (type `float`), strings (type `str`), characters (type `char`), and the unit type (type `unit`, `()`).

**integer:** A type that represents whole numbers.

**floating-point:** A type that represents numbers with fractional parts.

**string:** A type that represents sequences of characters.

**character:** A type that represents a single character.

**unit type:** A special type that holds no value.

**variable:** A name that refers to a value. Actually, acts as shorthand for an expression.

**statement:** A section of code that represents a command or action.  So
far, the statements we have seen are assignments and print statements.

**assignment:** A statement that assigns a value to a variable.

**state diagram:** A graphical representation of a set of variables and the
expressions they refer to.

**keyword:** A reserved word that is used by the compiler to parse a
program; you cannot use keywords like `if`, ` class`, and `while` as
variable names.

**operator:** A special symbol that represents a simple computation like
addition, multiplication, or string concatenation.

**operand:** One of the values on which an operator operates.

**expression:** A combination of variables, operators, and values that
represents a single result value.

**evaluate:** To simplify an expression by performing the operations
in order to yield a single value.

**rules of precedence:** The set of rules governing the order in which
expressions involving multiple operators and operands are evaluated.

**concatenate:** To join two operands end-to-end.

**comment:** Information in a program that is meant for other
programmers (or anyone reading the source code) and has no effect on the
execution of the program.