## 2.1 Values and types
A **value** is one of the basic things a program works with, like a letter or a number.  Some values we have seen so far are `1`, `2`, and `"Hello, World!"`.

These values belong to different **types**: `2` is an integer (whole number), and `"Hello, World!"` is a **string**, so-called because it contains a "string" of letters. You (and the interpreter) can identify strings because they are enclosed in double quotation marks.

You've already seen "printfn". It also works for for integers, though you still have to give it a string: `"%d"` which has a placeholder (`%d`) for the integer, and then provide the integer (`4`):
``` fsharp
# printfn "%d" 4;;
4
val it : unit = ()
```
If you are not sure what type a value has, the interpreter will tell you.
``` fsharp
> let a = 1;;
val a : int = 1;;
> let foo = "Hello, World!"
val foo : string = "Hello, World!"
```
Not surprisingly, strings belong to the type `string` and
integers belong to the type `int`.  Less obviously, numbers
with a decimal point belong to a type called `float`,
because these numbers are represented in a
format called **floating-point**.
``` fsharp
> let a = 3.2;;
val a : float = 3.2
```
There's also a separate type called `char`, which is short for "character." 
A char is like a string, but it's only one character long (hence the name), and it's surrounded 
by single quotes instead of double quotes. In fact, strings are comprised of lists
of chars. (A note on pronunciation: most often, "char" is pronounced like in charcoal. 
It's less standard, but we personally prefer to pronounce it like it appears in character, since that's where it came from.) Usually, you'll use strings, but if you really only need one character, chars use less memory.
``` fsharp
> let foo = 'a';;
val foo : char = 'a'
```
If you attempt to make a char that's more than one character in length, you get a syntax error:
``` fsharp
> let foo = 'ab';;
  let foo = 'ab';;
  ----------^

stdin(8,11): error FS0010: Unexpected quote symbol in binding
```
If you enclose a number in quotes, F# will infer that it is a char or string, 
depending on the number of quotes.

When you type a large integer, you might be tempted to use commas
between groups of three digits, as in `1,000,000`.  This is not a legal integer in F#, but it is legal:
``` fsharp
> 1,000,000;;
val it : int * int * int = (1, 0, 0)
```
Well, that's not what we expected at all! F# interprets `1,000,000` 
as a comma-separated sequence of integers. Nevermind the type of this object; 
we'll get to it later.

This is the first example we have seen of a semantic error: the code
runs without producing an error message, but it doesn't do the
"right" thing.

You can however use "_" as a separator (in F# version 4.1 or later). So `1_000_000` works just fine:
``` fsharp
> 1_000_000
val it : int = 1000000
```
There's also one more type, called **unit**, represented as (). This represents 
a sort of "void"  or "empty" value. You'll see where this pops up, and can be useful, later.