## 2.11 Debugging

At this point the syntax error you are most likely to make is
an illegal variable name, like `class`, which
is a keyword, or `odd.job` and `hack_and_/`, which contain
illegal characters.

For syntax errors, the error messages try to be helpful, but aren't always clear. With experience though, you'll eventually learn to understand what you've done wrong from the error messages.

The runtime error you are most likely to make is a `not defined` that is,
trying to use a variable before you have assigned
a value. This can happen if you spell a variable name wrong:

``` fsharp
> let principal = 327.68;;
val principal : float = 327.68
> let interest = principle * rate;;

  let interest = principle * rate;;
  ---------------^^^^^^^^^

stdin(2,16): error FS0039: The value or constructor 'principle' is not defined
```
Variables names are case sensitive, so `LaTeX` is not the
same as `latex`.

At this point the most likely cause of a semantic error is
the order of operations. For example, to evaluate `1 / 2π`,
you might be tempted to write
``` fsharp
> 1.0 / 2.0 * pi;;
```
But the division happens first, so you would get π / 2, which
is not the same thing! There is no way for F#
to know what you meant to write, so in this case you don't
get an error message; you just get the wrong answer. Hint: you can use parentheses to explicitly tell F# what you really want.

Another semantic error you might encounter is a scope error.
For example, assigning a variable for one scope and trying to use it
in another:

``` fsharp
> let evil = -1;;
val a : int = -1
> let good = 1 in good + evil;;
val it : int = 0;;
> good + evil;;

  good + evil;;
  ^^^^

stdin(64,1): error FS0039: The value or constructor 'good' is not defined
```
The last common semantic error we'll mention now is attempting to create
a variable name with a space in it, which F# interprets as a function
definition:

``` fsharp
> let bad name = 4;;
val bad : name:'a -> int
> bad 2;;
val it : int = 4
> bad "Please, anything but 4!";;
val it : int = 4
```
What you've done is written a function `bad` that takes one argument of 
any type and always returns `4`. This will make more sense when we see 
functions in the next chapter.