## 2.3 Variable names and keywords
Programmers generally choose names for their variables that
are meaningful - they document what the variable is used for.

Variable names can be arbitrarily long.  They can contain
both letters and numbers, but they have to begin with a letter.
It is legal to use uppercase letters, but it is a good idea
to begin variable names with a lowercase letter (you'll
see why later).

The underscore character `_` can appear in a name.
It is sometimes used in names with multiple words, such as
`my_name` or `airspeed_of_unladen_swallow`, or 
to denote subscripts, such as `y_0` as an initial 
condition. So can an apostraphe `'`, such as `h'`.

If you give a variable an illegal name, you get a syntax 
error:

``` fsharp
> let 17h = 17 * 17;;

  let 17h = 17 * 17;;
  ----^^^

stdin(23,5): error FS1156: This is not a valid numeric literal.
Sample formats include 4, 0x4, 0b0100, 4L, 4UL, 4u, 4s, 4us, 4y, 4uy, 4.0, 4.0f, 4I.

> let more@ = "hello";;

  let more@ = "hello";;
  --------^

stdin(24,9): error FS0010: Unexpected infix operator in pattern
> let class = 2;;

  let class = 2;;
  ----^^^^^

stdin(25,5): error FS0010: Unexpected keyword 'class' in binding
```
In FSI, F# will be nice and even underline where the error occured for you.

`7h` is illegal because it does not begin with a letter.
`more@` is illegal because it contains an illegal character, `@`.  But what's wrong with `class`?

It turns out that `class` is one of F#'s **keywords**.  The
interpreter uses keywords to recognize the structure of the program,
and they cannot be used as variable names. The full list of keywords 
can be found online here: 
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/articles/fsharp/language-reference/keyword-reference

You'll get a really interesting error if you try to use just a 
number as a variable:

``` fsharp
> let 17 = 2;;

  let 17 = 2;;
  ----^^

stdin(26,5): warning FS0025: Incomplete pattern matches on this expression. For example,
the value '0' may indicate a case not covered by the pattern(s).
Microsoft.FSharp.Core.MatchFailureException: The match cases were incomplete
   at <StartupCode$FSI_0021>.$FSI_0021.main@()
Stopped due to error
```
That's fun. Technically, this is a semantic error causing a 
syntax error. This will make a little more sense later when
we talk about pattern-matching.