## 2.4 Operators and operands
**Operators** are special symbols that represent computations like
addition and multiplication.  The values the operator is applied to
are called **operands**.

In F#, operators are **strictly typed**, meaning you can't use an integer operator
for a float, or vice versa. F#, unlike some other programming languages, won't
even infer that you meant a float when you put an int, or vice versa. This can make
debugging type errors much simpler, though it seems like a pain at first. A common mistake is to do something like `let myGPA = 4` and expect to get a float. You won't, you'll get an integer. If you want a float, you have to add the decimal point: `let myGPA = 4.0`. (You don't technically have to add the `0` after the decimal point, but it's generally a good idea as it improves readability).

For integers, the operators `+`, `-`, `*`, and `/`
perform addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division, as in 
the following examples:
```
20 + 32
hour - 1
hour * 60 + minute
minute / 60  
(5 + 9) * (15 - 7)
```
For floating-points, most operators are the same, and there is also a floating point operator for exponentiation, namely `**`. There is no integer exponentiation, probably because an integer
raised to a negative integer would result in a non-integer. (This is not to say that a function can't take two integers and return a float.)

In some other languages, `^` is used for exponentiation, but
in F# it's used for string concatenation, meaning the two strings 
are added end-to-start, such as in the following example:
``` fsharp
> "Hello, " ^ "World!";;
val it : string = "Hello, World!"
```
However, use of `^` for string concatenation is simply a hold-over from its ML language ancestry, and F# will warn you to use `+` instead, which is the idiomatic F# string concatenation operator.
``` fsharp
> "Hello, " + "World!";;
val it : string = "Hello, World!"
``` 
Don't forget to put a space somewhere so your words are separated 
when you concatenate.

You can change an int to a float or vice versa using the 
F# functions "float" or "int", like so:
``` fsharp
> let i = 5;;
val it : int = 5

> float i;;
val it : float = 5.0

> let f = 3.0;;
val it : float = 3.0

> int f;;
val it : int = 3
```